.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Antranig Vartanian <antranig@vartanian.am>
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Faraz Vahedi <kfv@kfv.io>
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted providing that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.\" IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd October 4, 2022
.Dt JAILER-IMAGE 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm jailer-start, jailer-stop, jailer-list
.Nd "start, stop, and list jails"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm jailer list
.Nm jailer start
.Ar name
.Nm jailer stop
.Ar name
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The interface is immature and under development.
The current implementation does not have any sanity checks
provided and is only there to make things a bit easier.
For example,
.Cm start
and
.Cm stop
do not accept more than one jail
.Ar name
at this time, and
.Cm list
does not accept an argument to check for its existence.
But soon will they be all refactored and this manual page
will be rewritten.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr jailer-init 8 ,
.Xr jailer-image 8 ,
.Xr jailer-create 8 ,
.Xr jailer-destroy 8 ,
.Xr jailer-console 8 ,
.Xr jailer-start 8 ,
.Xr jailer-stop 8 ,
.Xr jailer-list 8 
