.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Antranig Vartanian <antranig@vartanian.am>
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Faraz Vahedi <kfv@kfv.io>
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted providing that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.\" IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd October 1, 2022
.Dt JAILER-INIT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm jailer-init
.Nd "initialise jailer comfortably"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm jailer init
.Oo
.Ar args
.Oc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Although the initialisation consists of a few simple steps that
are easy to carry out manually,
.Sy jailer init
is the recommended method to ensure everything is in place and
correctly configured since the number of dependencies may increase
in time.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d Ar dataset
Set what
.Em pool/dataset
to create for
.Cm jailer .
The default value is
.Em $pool/jails
where
.Em $pool
is either the value specified with the
.Fl z
option or the name of the pool inferred automatically.
For example, if there is only one ZFS pool (so it can be inferred
automatically) and its name is
.Em zroot ,
the default value would be
.Em zroot/jails .
This option cannot be used with the
.Fl z
option.
.It Fl m Ar mount_point
Set the mount point of the ZFS dataset that is about to be created.
The default value is
.Pa /usr/local/jails .
.It Fl n
Do not use default values.
.It Fl z Ar zpool
Set the
.Em $pool
for
.Em $pool/jails ,
where "jails" is the default value to be used for the dataset in
.Em $pool/dataset .
This option cannot be used with
.Fl d
option, since that per se requires the user to specify the pool
name as well, that consequently makes
.Fl z
option meaningless.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Assume there is only one ZFS pool and it's named
.Em hope .
To initialise
.Cm jailer
with all the default values, where the file system would be
.Em hope/jails
in this case and the mount point
.Pa /usr/local/jails ,
no argument is required, hence:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
> jailer init
.Ed
.Pp
Regardless of how many pools exist on the host (even if only
one,) initialise
.Cm jailer
with a file system named
.Em tank/prison
and the mount point of
.Pa /usr/local/prisoners :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
> jailer init -d tank/prisons -m /usr/local/prisoners
.Ed
.Pp
Assume there are three ZFS pools available. zroot, tank, and
aurora. To initialise
.Cm jailer
with a file system named
.Em aurora/jails ,
where "jails" is the default value in
.Em $pool/jails ,
only pool name has to be specified, hence:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
> jailer init -z aurora
.Ed
.Pp
Initialise
.Cm jailer
with
.Em mars/martians ,
and ignore default values - so the mount point would be
inferred and an error might occur if the file system
cannot be created:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
> jailer init -n -d mars/martians
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr jailer-init 8 ,
.Xr jailer-image 8 ,
.Xr jailer-create 8 ,
.Xr jailer-destroy 8 ,
.Xr jailer-console 8 ,
.Xr jailer-start 8 ,
.Xr jailer-stop 8 ,
.Xr jailer-list 8 
