.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Antranig Vartanian <antranig@vartanian.am>
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Faraz Vahedi <kfv@kfv.io>
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted providing that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.\" IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd October 4, 2022
.Dt JAILER-CREATE 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm jailer-create, jailer-destroy
.Nd "create or destroy jails comfortably"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm jailer create
.Op Fl r Ar version | Fl s Ar snap
.Op Fl t Ar eb Ns | Ns Ar ng
.Op Fl b Ar bridge
.Op Fl n
.Op Fl d Ar domain
.Op Fl g Ar gateway Fl m Ar netmask
.Op Fl a Ar addr
.Ar name
.Nm jailer destroy
.Ar name
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Too young to have a story, and self descriptive enough to let us
get down to the nitty-gritty.
.Sh OPTIONS
Please note that
.Cm jailer destroy
accepts no options and the only argument it receives is the
name of the jail to destroy.
Therefore, all the following options are only valid for
.Cm jailer create .
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a Ar addr
Use
.Em addr
for networking.
The value could be either
.Sy dhcp
(to use DHCP) or an IP address.
.It Fl b Ar bridge Ns | Ns Ar interface
Attatch to
.Em bridge Ns | Ns Em interface .
.It Fl d Ar domain
Set the jail's domain.
Jail's hostname is its name plus the domain, for example, if
the name is www and the domain is example.com, hostname would
be www.example.com.
.It Fl g Ar gateway
Set the gateway.
.It Fl m Ar netmask
Set netmask. Only applicable if specifying a gateway.
.It Fl n
Disable sendmail, disable cron, and set
.Fl ss
flag for
.Xr syslogd 8
to avoid openning a network socket from the daemon, which will
disable logging both from and to remote machines.
.It Fl r Ar revision
Use base image of the specified
.Em revision .
Default value is of the host's version.
.It Fl s Ar snapshot
Clone from the specified snapshot.
The value shall not be the full path of the ZFS snapshot, but
the portion being under the
.Cm jailer Ns 's
directory.
Check the EXAMPLES section to get a feel of the format.
.It Fl t Ar network_type
Use vnet and set the network type. Could be either
.Em eb
or
.Em ng ,
where the former is epair/bridge and the latter netgraph.
Default is none.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Create a jail named www, attached to bridge0, using IP
address of 10.0.0.10, with the hostname of
www.example.com, and using release version 12.3-RELEASE:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
> jailer create -r 12.3-RELEASE -b bridge0 -d example.com -a 10.0.0.10 www
.Ed
.Pp
Assuming the host is running 13.1-RELEASE, create a jail
named tangerine, using DHCP, attached to bridge0, and
with the hostname of tangerine.citrus.loc:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
> jailer create -b bridge0 -d citrus.loc -a dhcp tangerine
.Ed
.Pp
Assuming the following is an excerpt from the list of ZFS snapshots on
the host:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
zroot/jails/api-dev@base
zroot/jails/api-dev@alpha
zroot/jails/api-dev@beta
zroot/jails/api-dev@gamma
zroot/jails/api-dev@gold
.Ed
.Pp
To create a jail named api from the
zroot/jails/api-dev@gold snapshot, something like the
following is required:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
> jailer create -s api-dev@gold -b bridge0 -d example.com -a 10.0.0.110 api
.Ed
.Pp
Destroy a jail named capsule:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
> jailer destroy capsule
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr jailer-init 8 ,
.Xr jailer-image 8 ,
.Xr jailer-create 8 ,
.Xr jailer-destroy 8 ,
.Xr jailer-console 8 ,
.Xr jailer-start 8 ,
.Xr jailer-stop 8 ,
.Xr jailer-list 8 
